## 4.2.0 (2025-07-09)

* Added the option to disable session re-use via the `-NoSession` switch on config profiles and individual public functions. This can negatively affect performance and increase audit log verbosity for large numbers of WAPI calls but is useful in certain edge cases.
  * When used with `Set-IBConfig` all subsequent function calls using that profile will no longer create or save sessions with the WAPI host. Use `-NoSession:$false` to unset.
  * When a profile has sessions enabled, you can still disable session re-use on a per-call basis by adding the `-NoSession` switch to the function you're using.
  * Per-call functions include Get/New/Remove/Set-IBObject, Get-IBSchema, Invoke-IBFunction/IBWAPI, and Receive/Send-IBFile.
* Added support for IBWAPI_NOSESSION environment variable when using stateless mode.

## 4.1.0 (2025-02-06)

* Added `-Inheritance` switch to `Get-IBObject` which requests WAPI to return inherited values for returned fields that support inheritance. This requires WAPI 2.10.2 or later.
  * WARNING: Depending on the field, the structure of the field's data may be different than a non-inheritance request. Be sure to test both ways to understand the differences in your use-case.
* Fixed a problem with BatchMode calls to `Get-IBObject` that wouldn't properly send the `-ProxySearch` flag to batched queries when specified.
* Changed low level URL encoding method to use `[System.Uri]::EscapeDataString()` which removes the explicit dependency on System.Web that was needed in PowerShell 5.1.

## 4.0.2 (2024-01-24)

* Fixed url encoding for boolean values in Get-IBObject filters passed by hashtable

## 4.0.1 (2022-10-17)

* Fixed error handling on public functions that were either throwing double errors in some cases or mis-attributing the function where the error occurred.

## 4.0.0 (2022-10-14)

### New Features

* `Get/New/Set/Remove-IBObject` all now have a `-BatchMode` switch and `-BatchGroupSize` integer parameter. Using these can increase performance when used with pipeline input by grouping the objects into fewer WAPI calls using the WAPI `request` object instead of making a separate call for each input.
  * WAPI seems to treat these batch requests as a single transaction. So if one of the requests in a group fails, the rest are cancelled/reverted.
  * The default batch group size is 1000 which corresponds to the maximum page size when doing Get queries. But there is no Infoblox documented maximum, so the size can theoretically be increased to the Int32 maximum of 2147483647.
* The module now supports running stateless by using an environment variable based connection profile. [(Guide)](https://docs.dvolve.net/Posh-IBWAPI/v4/Guides/Stateless-Mode/)
* Connection profiles can now be stored using PowerShell SecretManagement instead of a local config file. [(Guide)](https://docs.dvolve.net/Posh-IBWAPI/v4/Guides/Using-SecretManagement/)
* Documentation Revamp
  * https://docs.dvolve.net/Posh-IBWAPI/ is a new dedicated website for Posh-IBWAPI documentation. Existing guides and tutorials have been migrated there from the Github wiki. The site is currently generated using the Markdown files in the `docs` folder in the main project repository by [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/). So it should now be easier to contribute fixes and updates.
  * The native module help is now also generated by [platyPS](https://github.com/PowerShell/platyPS) from the Markdown files in `docs/Functions`.
  * `Get-Help <function name> -Online` should now open your browser to the appropriate page on the documentation site.

### Enhancements

* The `-Filter` parameter on `Get-IBObject` now supports using an IDictionary (such as a hashtable) to specify filters rather than just a string array.
  * For example, `-Filter @{'name~'='myrec'}` is the same as `-Filter 'name~=myrec'`.
  * Filters passed by dictionary will be automatically URL encoded instead of the caller needing to URL encode the filters in advance. This most useful when using regular expressions with a lot of special characters.
  * String based filters will continue to be passed as-is in the HTTP GET request like they were prior to 4.0.
* The module will keep a cache of "readable fields" when `Get-IBObject` is used with `-ReturnAll` so that subsequent calls for all fields from the same object type won't need to make additional schema queries.
* `Invoke-IBWAPI` will now automatically handle UTF-8 encoding JSON bodies when `-ContentType` is not specified. When `-ContentType` is specified, the body parameter will be sent as-is.
* `Invoke-IBWAPI` has an additional parameter set which takes a `-WAPIHost`, `-WAPIVersion`, and `-Query` parameter instead of the normal `-Uri` parameter.
* Tweaked Verbose and Debug logging throughout the module. JSON request bodies are now included in the Verbose output for functions that send them.

### Breaking Changes

* Most errors returned by the WAPI have been changed from terminating to non-terminating errors to better adhere to PowerShell standards. This will have a few notable effects on scripts using this module:
  * If there is an error thrown from one of the input objects when using the pipeline, the error will be sent to the error stream and the pipeline will continue processing the next object instead of terminating.
  * When you call a module function from within a script and it generates an error, the error will be sent to the error stream and the rest of the script will still be executed instead of terminating.
  * If your scripts currently depend on functions throwing terminating errors, you can re-enable that behavior by passing the `-ErrorAction Stop` parameter or setting the `$ErrorActionPreference = 'Stop'` variable which is normally set to `Continue`.
* The minimum PowerShell version requirements have been increased to 5.1 for legacy Windows PowerShell and 7.0 for cross-platform PowerShell. Partial functionality may still work on older versions, but they are no longer being tested against.
* The `-Filters` parameter on `Get-IBObject` has been renamed to `-Filter` but will continue to have a `-Filters` alias until at least the next major version.
* The `-ReturnAllFields` parameter on `Get-IBObject` has been renamed to `-ReturnAll` but will continue to have a `-ReturnAllFields` alias until at least the next major version.
* The `-ReturnBaseFields` paraemter on `Get/Set/New-IBObject` has been renamed to `-ReturnBase` but will continue to have a `-ReturnBaseFields` alias until at least the next major version.
* The `-ReturnFields` parameter on `Get/Set/New-IBObject` has been renamed to `-ReturnField` but will continue to have a `-ReturnFields` alias until at least the next major version.
* Automatic migration from 1.x connection profiles is no longer supported.

## 3.2.2 (2022-03-17)

* Added ObjectType argument completer for Get-IBObject, New-IBObject, and Get-IBSchema. Currently requires having already run Get-IBSchema to cache the potential values.
* Fixed issue propagating SkipCertificateCheck switch in api calls during `Send-IBFile` and `Receive-IBFile`

## 3.2.1 (2021-08-02)

* Added additional examples on `New-IBObject` and `Get-IBObject` (Thanks @qlikq)
* Fixed `Send-IBFile` throwing a PropertyNotFound exception when no FunctionArgs are specified. (#55) (Thanks @demdante)
* Fixed `Remove-IBConfig -All` not working
* Corrupt or unparseable config files are now handled more gracefully.
* Added a warning when importing a config on Linux/Mac that was originally created on Windows
* `Export-IBConfig` no longer writes an output file if no profiles are defined.

## 3.2.0 (2020-09-21)

* An optional `ProfileName` parameter has been added to the public functions that already accept connection specific parameters (#49). This will allow you to switch profiles on a per-call basis more easily. The connection specific parameters will still override the a specified profile's values. These are the affected functions:
  * Get-IBObject
  * Get-IBSchema
  * Invoke-IBFunction
  * New-IBObject
  * Receive-IBFile
  * Remove-IBObject
  * Send-IBFile
  * Set-IBObject
* `ProfileName` is now a positional parameter in `Remove-IBConfig`
* Minor efficiency improvements in `Get-IBObject` for results with many pages.
* The name of the default branch in git has been renamed from master to main.

## 3.1.2 (2020-04-15)

* Fixed bug with Remove-IBObject that would inherit invalid return field parameters in some cases.

## 3.1.1 (2020-03-10)

* Better error handling in Set-IBConfig when ProfileName not specified and no active profile selected. (#47)
* Fixed dev install script for redirected docs locations

## 3.1.0 (2019-08-23)

* Added `OverrideTransferHost` switch to `Send-IBFile` and `Receive-IBFile` which tweaks the WAPI supplied transfer URL so that the hostname matches the WAPIHost value originally passed to the function. It also copies the state of the `SkipCertificate` switch to the transfer call.
* `Send-IBFile` will no longer lock the file being uploaded so other readers can't read it.
* Fixed file encoding in `Send-IBFile` when uploading non-ascii files.
* Fixed `Receive-IBFile` on PowerShell Core by working around an upstream bug (#43)
* Fixed `Get-IBObject`'s `ReturnAllFields` parameter when not querying the latest WAPI version

## 3.0.0 (2019-04-20)

* Breaking Changes
  * The change to `ObjectType` parameter in `Invoke-IBFunction` has been reverted to `ObjectRef` like in 1.x. I totally confused myself during 2.x development of the *-IBFile functions and thought it had been wrong the whole time. It seems silly to do another major version change after two days. But breaking changes demand it according to semver.
  * The `ObjectType` parameter in `Send-IBFile` and `Receive-IBFile` have been changed to `ObjectRef` to match `Invoke-IBFunction`. Both still default to 'fileop' and have parameter aliases for 'type' and 'ObjectType' to maintain compatibility with the short lived 2.x codebase.
* Fixed example in `Invoke-IBFunction` help.

## 2.0.1 (2019-04-19)

* Fixed `Send-IBFile` for PowerShell 3/4

## 2.0.0 (2019-04-18)

* Breaking Changes
  * .NET 4.5+ is now required on PowerShell Desktop edition for full functionality. A warning will be thrown when loading the module if it is not found.
  * The `WebSession` parameter has been removed from all functions except `Invoke-IBWAPI`. Session handling is now automatic.
  * `New-IBSession` has been removed.
  * `Get-IBWAPIConfig`, `Set-IBWAPIConfig`, and `Remove-IBWAPIConfig` have been renamed to `Get-IBConfig`, `Set-IBConfig`, and `Remove-IBConfig` respectively.
  * `Save-IBWAPIConfig` has been removed. Configs are now saved by default via `Set-IBConfig`.
  * Configs are now referenced by a `ProfileName`. Old 1.x configs will be automatically backed up, converted, and the new profiles will have their WAPIHost value set as the initial profile name.
  * `Set-IBConfig` now has `ProfileName` as its first parameter.
  * `Get-IBConfig` and `Remove-IBConfig` now have `ProfileName` instead of `WAPIHost` as their selection parameter.
  * The `IgnoreCertificateValidation` switch has been renamed to `SkipCertificateCheck` in all functions and configs to be more in line with PowerShell Core.
  * The `ObjectRef` parameter in `Invoke-IBFunction` has been changed to `ObjectType` which is functionally how it always worked and was inappropriately named. Functions get called against object types not references.
* New Feature: Automatic session handling. The module will now automatically save and use WebSession objects to increase authentication efficiency over multiple requests and function calls.
* New Feature: Named configuration profiles. This will allow you to save multiple profiles for the same WAPI host with different credentials, WAPI versions, etc.
* New functions `Send-IBFile` and `Recieve-IBFile` which are convenient wrappers around the fileop functions. See the cmdlet help or the guide in the wiki for more details.
* Config profiles are now automatically saved to disk when using `Set-IBConfig`.
* `Set-IBConfig` now has a `NewName` parameter to rename the profile.
* `Get-IBConfig` now returns a typed object with a automatically styled display.
* `Remove-IBConfig` now has pipeline support both by value and property name so you can pipe the output of `Get-IBConfig` to it.
* `Get-IBConfig`, `Set-IBConfig`, and `Remove-IBConfig` now have tab completion on PowerShell 5.0 or later.

## 1.6.0 (2019-04-04)

* Added -NoPaging switch in Get-IBObject (#34) (Thanks @basvinken)

## 1.5.0 (2018-09-28)

* Added ByType as default parameter set for `Get-IBObject` which means you can query types like this `Get-IBObject grid` instead of needing the explicit `-ObjectType` parameter name.
* Get/Set/New/Remove-IBObject and Invoke-IBFunction were failing to properly process direct `-ObjectRef` input arrays. The parameter has been changed to a single string and if you want them to process multiple, you must use pipeline input now.
* Fixed bug failing to load saved config on some versions of PowerShell
* Fixed HTTP 400/BadRequest error handling when running on PowerShell Core
* Minor code refactoring to align with PSScriptAnalyzer suggestions

## 1.4.0 (2018-04-26)
* Added `-PageSize` parameter to `Get-IBObject` to work around large responses causing JSON deserialization errors as in issue #26

## 1.3.0 (2018-01-25)
* Persistent config support
  * New `Save-IBWAPIConfig` and `Remove-IBWAPIConfig` functions
  * `posh-ibwapi.json` stored `%LOCALAPPDATA%` on Windows, `~/.config` on Linux, and `~/Library/Preferences` on MacOS
  * Passwords encrypted using `ConvertFrom-SecureString` on Windows, but only Base64 on non-Windows until PowerShell team fixes compatibility
* Switching to a new config set with `Set-IBWAPIConfig` no longer copies the settings from the old config if they weren't specified. This was never really documented and was causing confusion more than helping.

## 1.2.2 (2018-01-13)
* [PowerShell Core](https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell) support!

## 1.2.1 (2018-01-09)
* Added Grid Master Candidate meta refresh detection. So if your grid master candidates are configured to redirect to the current grid master, the module will automatically re-try the query there and throw a warning, rather than failing with an error.
* Fixed a potential null reference exception
* Misc code refactoring

## 1.2.0 (2017-09-30)
* Added Get-IBSchema for Get-Help style querying of the WAPI object model. *(Requires WAPI 1.7.5+)*
* Added -ReturnAllFields parameter to Get-IBObject which will return all possible fields for an object without needing to explicitly specify each one. *(Requires WAPI 1.7.5+)*
* Fixed credential checking in Initialize-CallVars
* Fixed empty results throwing an error in Get-IBObject

## 1.1.2 (2017-09-04)
* Tweaked Get-IBObject paging so that MaxResults will limit page size if smaller than default, thus not requesting more data than necessary
* Fix for issue #17. JSON bodies are now explicitly UTF8 encoded to prevent issues with non-ASCII characters

## 1.1.1 (2017-05-26)
* Fix for issue #16 (regression bug with Set-IBWAPIConfig and -IgnoreCertificateValidation)

## 1.1.0 (2017-05-26)
* Multi-Host config support
  * Set-IBWAPIConfig now supports saving values per-WAPIHost
  * Switch the 'active' host by calling Set-IBWAPIConfig with just the -WAPIHost parameter
  * Use -NoSwitchHost to update config values for a host without switching the 'active' host
* Added -DeleteArgs to Remove-IBObject for issue #11
* Fix for issue #15 regarding errors when TLS 1.0 is disabled in Infoblox
* Misc internal refactoring

## 1.0.1 (2017-04-26)

* Readme tweaks
* Potential fix for issue #10 regarding 401 errors with Set-IBWAPIConfig -ver latest

## 1.0.0 (2017-04-20)

* Initial Release
* Added functions
  * Get-IBObject
  * Get-IBWAPIConfig
  * Invoke-IBFunction
  * Invoke-IBWAPI
  * New-IBObject
  * New-IBWAPISession
  * Remove-IBObject
  * Set-IBObject
  * Set-IBWAPIConfig
